## 2024-02-07~

It's super shameful that I found myself frustrated only focusing on my own productivity or my own performance.
I want to boost not only my productivity but also my team's productivity.
I want to be able to prioritize my team's priorities, not my own.

There are two kinds of things I can do

1. Make my team's work more efficient
2. Make my team people happier

### 1. Make my team's work more efficient

Find something that can be automated, faster, more accurate, or easier.

#### 1.1. Automate

#### 1.2. Faster

#### 1.3. More accurate

#### 1.4. Easier

### 2. Make my team people happier

- Care how all others feel. Are they happy? Not? and why? What can I do to make them happy?
-

### 3. Communicate better

- When I say something, I better clarify briefly why I want to say something. (ex. I just want to make sure xx,... or I just want to share my opinion, ...)

## 2024-02-13

https://note.com/karszawa/n/n45bd0bdc2cd5?sub_rt=share_pb

### Write better documentations or comments

#### Don't write unnecessary documentation or comments

- Can be waste of time for both writer and the reviewer to read the documentation or comments, making sure they are correct and up to date
- Can easily be outdated and there's no way to automatically keep it up to date

#### Then how to write good documentation?

- Rather than writing all of the contents by yourself, write minimum sentences and leave well-written official documentations, articles or reading source from the web, and link them.
  - The documentation can be more accurate and up to date, or if it's outdated, still there's low risk because you didn't put too much effort into it
- ADR (Architecture Decision Record) can be a exception because it'll be valuable even if it's outdated.
- Documentations for coding style or PR styles are waste of time, instead make a rule with eslint or commit lint and enforce it.

**You write documentations or comments as last resort. Try to find other ways to achieve what you want.(Automation, better code readability, etc)**

### Be better as a onboarder(newcomer)

- From day1, try to find any room for improvement
- At least you can try to make the onboarding process better.

## 2024-02-23

### Always praise how other works. You don't have to say "It's not that hard" or "It wouldn't take much time". It's just making them feel pressured or you want to show off your superiority.

Some people tends to say "It's not that hard" or "It wouldn't take much time" when a task is being assigned to others, or when team member finished their task. It's not good. What's the point of saying that? Do you want to say that to make them feel pressured? Or do you just want to say that you could do it better? What's matter with you?
First thing first, you just have to praise them. If they finish their task, just say "Nice!". So easy, much easier than say "That's not really difficult, isn't that?" If they're going to tackle some task, you just have to say "Good luck!". Or if you have any concern, you just have to kindly tell them these concerns.
